## Abstract

Ahead of the 2020 American presidential race, political marketers face significant challenges; the mediascape has changed with the rise of misinformation and the nation is seemingly very divided. In order to reach their target audience, marketers must consider that voting choices are made on more than just facts – emotion, bias and unconscious thought play an important role in one’s decision-making process. The purpose of this thesis is to understand what effect advertising has, by analyzing American voters’ unconscious response to political advertising & media. 

The thesis has been created in partnership with Brainsights, a neuromarketing consultancy based in Toronto, Canada. Brainsights collected quantitative brain data using electroencephalograms (EEG) on current political news clips and advertisements. Data collection occurred during research studies in New York and Tennessee between February 3–6, 2020. Data corresponding to each piece of content was then analyzed by examining what tone of voice are American voters are responding to, as well as the social–political issues that resonate. By analyzing the unconscious response in relation to the creative media, the findings are presented as a combination of psychological and creative analysis. This reporting style emphasizes the goal of the thesis–to highlight the interplay between cognition and political media. 

The thesis provides considerable background research on the methodological practices and showcases the study findings. The information is also presented as web-based [data visualization](https://lulujordanna.github.io/thesis/). The visualization directs the user through the methodology and key studying findings before they can explore the dataset on their own. 
