## Methodology

The thesis partner Brainsights collected both qualitative survey data and quantitative brain data during research studies in Manhattan, New York and Chattanooga, Tennessee USA between February 3–6, 2020. The first survey was deployed as a recruiting tool on January 21, 2020. There were a total of 342 people who answered the pre-qualifying survey and 166 participants were selected for the study across the two markets. Of the total participants, 94 were stated Democrats, 29 were stated Republicans, 26 were undecided voters and 17 stated that they were not going to vote in the upcoming election. While the sample is skewed towards stated Democrats, the brain data is aggregated and the analysis is focused upon creative techniques of the content, not voter/demographic preferences. 

The Brainsights research sessions were 1 hour in length and held up to 30 people at a time. When the participants arrived at the session, they were greeted by a Brainsights team member for identification verification. They were then instructed to read and sign a legal waiver, a formality of Brainsights human subjects approval process.  During the study, Brainsights used mobile, single sensor EEG’s to measure the unconscious brain activity of participants as they watched a variety of content. Brainsights research team presented the content reels to participants on television and mobile devices and in varied order to control for priming effects. The content that participants watched included candidate advertising, political news clips and corporate advertisements that dealt with social-political issues. When the content was finished, participants answered an exit survey with questions about brand recall and social-political issues of importance. Once completed, participants returned the survey to the Brainsights team member and were paid for their attendance. All participants were paid a premium for their time and data, which is Brainsights way of creating a more meaningful and transparent value exchange.

Brainsights data is stripped of any personal identification information about the participants. Both the brain data and exit survey data is aggregated and reports are reflective of the sample, not an individual participant. Due to the multiple content reels and variation in session attendance, not all 166 participants would have watched the same content. Sample sizes of content range from 140 to 31 participants. The brain data is structured into a single metric - neural engagement, which is a composite measure of beta, gamma and theta waves collected from the EEG. These waves are associated with audience attention, emotional resonance and encoding to memory. Neural engagement, presents a read on the engagement/persuasiveness of specific stimuli. All analysis of the unconscious response is conducted on this metric. Additionally, each moment of each video was content coded based on tone (inspirational, fearful, informational or lighthearted) and issue (the economy, healthcare, climate change, immigration, education, etc). The content coding provided the opportunity to average and calculate the relative importance of tone and issues based on participants' brain response. Comparing the issue based response across consciously stated survey data and unconscious brain data is a focal point of the visualization project. 
